mr. o'rourke, we will start with you. new cyber attacks reported on databases in several states. misinformation online can be just as dangerous. should congress enact regulations on social media to protect voters from misinformation? 

let me thank you and sarah for moderating, the people of san antonio for being here and the people in texas for watching and participating in one of the most important decisions of our lifetime. Yes, the the integrity of our ballot box, the experiment of american democracy that is the exception and world history is sacred. unlike any other time, it is under attack. the intelligence community has reached unanimous conclusion that the russian government sought to undermine our democracy and president trump's own administration announced the indictment of 12 russian nationals who compromise voter data of more than half a million of americans and we know they will attack again in this election and that unless we stand up to them now. let us protect the integrity of our ballot box. i'm surprised that senator cruz has voted against funding to protect the ballot box, ensuring your vote goes to the candidate of your choice. we must also ensure that on social media, where so many of us have become the product, that we are not manipulated. opinions that we hold are not shaped by those from other countries. i want to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, this administration to make sure we do that and every voter can make informed decisions based on accurate info.

of course we should do more to protect elections. i'm proud to have secured funding to help protect our elections. a week ago the senate judiciary committee passed legislation that i cosponsored that would punish anyone who comes to this country with the purpose of undermining elections. we need to make sure elections are safe and secure. should congress be regulating social media and what they allowed to be said? i believe in the first amendment. i do not believe congress should be in the business of regulating conduct. it is not governments job to regulate content rather online. concerned, said, i am there are millions of texans concerned about the political bias of big tech, facebook, google, skewing and silencing the voices of those they politically disagree with. several months ago mark zuckerberg testified before the senate. i asked him questions about the political bias of facebook. even though congress should not regulate content, there are things we should think about doing. number one. big tech enjoys immunity from liability on the assumption they would be neutral and fair. if they are not going to be fair, we should repeal the immunity from liability, so they should be liable like the rest of us. number two. biggerech companies, than at&t was before it was broken up, bigger than standard oil, if they are abusing market powers and monopoly, antitrust laws should be enforced.

congressman, to be clear, he said congress should enact regulations on social media. yes or no, for regulations on social media?

yes we should make informed decisions based on facts. we not being manipulated by foreign powers -- to make sure we are not being manipulated. ted cruz invested more than $5 million in cambridge analytic, the very company that helped undermine our democracy and feed false news and opinions to fellow americans, to manipulate the world's greatest democracy. $5 million from ted cruz funded cambridge analytica. he voted against safeguarding our ballot box. senators will not stand up to president trump. someone who apologizes, defends russia, vladimir putin. he won't stand up against him for us to make sure elections are free and that your vote goes to the intended candidate. this is beyond party politics. this is getting our democracy back on track. we need a senator from texas who will do that.

senator cruz, brett kavanaugh was sworn in 11 days ago. the supreme court has five justices who have stated or suggested roe v. wade was wrongly decided. should we prepare for changes to abortion law in this country?

listen, i believe that every human life is a gift from god, is a precious gift from god and it should be protected, protected and cherished. i am pro-life. we will have to see when cases are decided. just liket kavanaugh, justice ginsburg and justice kagan, declined to answer those questions and that has been the standard for many years. on the question of life, there is an enormous difference between me and congressman o'rourke. on the question of life, congressman o'rourke is at the extreme pro-abortion side. he has repeatedly voted in favor of late-term abortions, in favor of taxpayer funding for abortions. that is not consistent with the views of the people of texas. the people of texas, especially the hispanic community, we do not want to see taxpayer-funded medicaid funding abortions and late-term abortions. that is extreme and disconnected. i will note, on the question of judges, that is a massive divide between congressman o'rourke and me. i was proud to lead the effort to confirm neil gorsuch and brett kavanaugh to the court. congressman o'rourke would have voted against both of them and he wants to see, like hillary clinton, left-wing judicial activists who impose policy preferences from the bench. i do not think that is what people of texas want. we want justices who follow the law. 

senator cruz has a troubling record when it comes to judicial nominations and confirmations. he supported the nomination of a judge who described transgender children as part of satan's plan. he supported the nomination of a judge who had never tried a case before, another who could not tell us whether brown v. board of education was correctly decided. from our perspective, in a state where you can be fired for being gay, i want a justice who believes in civil rights. a state that ranks 50th in voter i want, not by accident, a justice who believes in voting rights. for a state that is at the epicenter of the maternal mortality crisis, as we make it harder and harder for women to get access to health care they need, cervical cancer screening, family-planning provider, we are losing them faster here than almost any other state, almost any other developed country in the world. i will only vote to confirm a supreme court justice who believes in a woman's right to make her own decisions about her body, and the health care access to be able to do so. senator the next junior from texas to have justices who are in favor of people and our needs, not corporations or special interests. those are significant needs we have in texas now, not represented by justice brett kavanaugh. this is a decision i am concerned about.

what should abortion law in texas look like?

it is striking that he did not dispute his late-term abortion favoring, supporting taxpayer funding for abortions, late-term, even for illegal aliens. he has voted for that. that is extreme position, fewer than 90% of texans agree. he also did not dispute that he opposed justice gorsuch, justice kavanagh and if you listen to what he said, he said he wants justices that agree with his own left-wing policies. that is not the job of the court. the job of the court is to follow the law. if you want to change the law, you do it through elections. the constitution gives the power to the people, not five unelected lawyers in washington. let me note, the same judges congressman o'rourke wants to see would also undermine the first amendment, free speech, religious liberty, the second amendment, hillary clinton promised to a appoint justices who would undermine the second amendment and he enthusiastically supported her doing that.

senator cruz, president trump said on sunday that something is changing in regards to the climate. you are clearly on record for years saying that there is no evidence to back that up. but major oil companies including texas-based exxon mobil says even on its website the risk of climate change is clear and warrants action. that's exxon mobil's own words. So what do you tell texas companies who think this is really a problem?

of course the climate is changing. the climate has been changing from the dawn of time. the climate will change as long as we have a planet earth. i am the son of two mathematicians and computer programmers. i believe in science and i chaired the science and space subcommittee of the senate commerce committee. indeed, in that capacity i chaired a hearing looking on the science and data behind global warming. we heard testimony. we heard actual science and data. far too many democrats approach this issue not as a matter of science. we should follow the signs and evidence. they approach it as a matter of government power. they want the power to control the economy. that has led congressman o'rourke to cast votes that are harmful to texas. for example, he voted in favor of a $10 a barrel tax on every oil barrel produced in texas. that would have been devastating to the state of texas. by the way, $10 a barrel works out to about $.24 a gallon that everyone of us would pay when you fill up your car. that would hurt the people of texas. a robust energy sector is good for all of texas. there are millions of jobs that depend on a robust sector. his voting against texas oil and gas, voting against energy, that hurts the economy, that hurts jobs, that is not right for texas. let me point out all of those oil and gas workers, they buy homes, they buy cars and trucks, they get health care, they give to churches and schools. by the way, the university of texas a&m gets hundreds of millions of dollars from our energy sector.

this is what you can expect over the course of this debate. senator cruz is not going to be honest with you. he is going to make up positions on votes that i have never held or have ever taken. he is dishonest. that is why the president called him "lying ted," and it is why the nickname stuck. because it is true. look, the climate is changing. man-made climate change is a fact. 300 years after the enlightenment, we should be able to listen to the scientists and follow their advice and guidance. they tell us that we still have time, but the window is closing to get this right. if we're going to make our commitment to the generations that follow and not just think about the next election or our political career or pursuit of the white house, then we can make the right decisions now. we can support texas being a proud energy leader in oil and in gas, but also in renewable energy. today, texas leads the country. we are number one in the nation in the generation of renewable wind power. we are number five, and moving up quick, when it comes to solar. the two fastest growing jobs in the united states of america today -- wind and solar jobs. we can continue to grow this economy. we can reject the false choice between oil and gas and renewable energy and make sure that we produce and refine and transport and use our energy resources more responsibly. and listen, this is not one political party saying this. this is people of both parties and every single county in texas, we have had the chance to listen to people. these are folks who work in the energy industry. amy and i were in iran and texas listening to those who work in some of these fracking operations. what they want is predictability and consistency in the regulations and then they will perform to them.

mr. cruz, does exxon mobil have it wrong here? it is clear congressman o'rourke's pollsters have told him to come out on the attack. if he wants to insult me and call me a liar, that is fine. john adams famously said facts are stubborn things. so if you want to see the vote he cast for a $10 a barrel tax on oil, go to our website, it is ted cruz.org, and we will put up the exact text of the vote and a link to congressman o'rourke's vote against the people of texas. let me say, if you work in energy, if you work in oil and gas, congressman o'rourke's record on this is extreme. he did not just vote for $10 a barrel tax on oil. he has also voted for aggressive regulations of fracking, aggressive regulations of exporting liquefied natural gas. he is a prominent supporter of president obama's paris climate deal, which would have killed thousands of jobs in the state of texas. that is not good for texas, and it is an example of over and over again, congressman o'rourke sides with liberal extremists on the national level instead of the people of texas, instead of jobs of texas. by the way are great, too. texas leads in energy across the board.

representative, this question is about immigration policy. we know your position and passion for the dreamers, and we know that you are adamantly against extending the existing border fence. this question here is specifically about border security. if we don't need a border wall, can you please look at the the people of texas tonight and tell them what we do need? 

i would be happy to. and listen, i do not know that there is another person who has a greater stake in this issue than i do. amy and i are raising ulysses and molly and henry in el paso, texas. one half of the largest binational community on the border, the defining border community. we care about our kids' safety, i care about the safety of those i represented in congress. i care about the safety of every single person in the state of texas. el paso, in fact, is one of, if not the safest cities in the united states of america because we have world-class law enforcement, police and sheriff's deputies, but it is also because we are a city of immigrants. a quarter of those that i represent were born in another country and chose us, came here to this country and by their very presence, made it better. no wall is going to solve legitimate security concerns, but smart policy will. let me describe one of those to you. senator john cornyn and i, he is is a republican and i am a democrat, he is in the senate and i'm the house, worked on policy together to invest in our ports of entry. that is where 90% of everyone and everything that ever comes into the united states first crosses. having a better idea of who and what comes into our country demonstrably makes it safer. at the same time, those customs officers are able to facilitate legitimate trade and travel that is connected to more than a million jobs in the state of texas. as we all know, here, the home of toyota, trade is the lifeblood of the state of texas. if we can make our communities more secure, as this bill did, and facilitate more job growing trade, then we have really figured something out. i think john cornyn and i have been able to do that, republicans and democrats working together on an issue that makes texas better.

everyone should notice, in his answer, that he wanted to talk about trade, he wanted to talk about customs, he wanted to talk about everything except border security. let me say, there is no race in the country with a starker divide on immigration than this race here. in the state of texas. for me, i am incredibly honored to have received the formal endorsement of the national border patrol council. the union of the men and women who risk their lives keeping our nation safe. i will note at this debate, i am very pleased we have brandon judd and paul perez, both of the national border patrol council. the reason they are supporting me is i have led the fight to secure the border building the wall, using technology and increasing boots on the ground. we can keep our communities safe. congressman o'rourke not only opposes a wall, but he has said that we have too many fences and walls already on the border. he wants to tear down the ones we have. i will note he brought up el paso. el paso is right across from juarez, one of the most dangerous cities in the world. 3000 murders last year. there is a wall there. that wall is one of the tools you use to protect us. let me give you an example of just how extreme congressman o' rourke is on immigration. case law, common sense legislation overwhelming majority of texans support it. i am the author of case law in the senate that says, violent, criminal illegal aliens, if they they are deported repeatedly, should face a mandatory minimum prison sentence. congressman o'rourke has voted against case law. that is wrong. we should not be releasing violent criminals into our community.

congressman, can you tell us your specific plan to secure the border? 

as i just told you, senator john cornyn and i have worked to invest in our ports of entry. that means staffing of customs officers. that means infrastructure at our bridges that connect us with mexico, where 90% of everyone and everything first crosses, and it means investment in the technology that ensures we do a better, smarter job screening those who first come into this country. that will make us safer. it also means that we support local law enforcement, those police officers and sheriff's deputies who keep this country safe. we can do that as well. but listen, we cannot use this idea of border security to be an impediment to moving forward on those issues that are also demanding our action. and which texans know better than perhaps any other people of any other state. on issues of immigration reform, the fate of dreamers, nearly 200,000 in the state of texas. when the senate voted to move forward on debate for dreamers, 98 senators showed up that day. 97 voted to move forward. only one senator voted no, stood in the corner while everyone else was at the table. ted cruz has put his career above the interests and priorities of texans. ted cruz is for ted cruz.

hold on a second. let me respond to that please. i notice congressman o'rourke said we need to support law enforcement. i think that is striking that he says that now in a debate because his career has been one of consistently opposing law enforcement. indeed, someone else who's here today is detective mike kelly, who leads the san antonio police officers association and he has endorsed me. i would note as well that 171 elected texas sheriffs, including a rebuttal is necessary and i want to make a point on law enforcement.

gentlemen, let's talk on health care now. what you're looking at, for our television audience, is a live picture of our victory park studios in dallas where that social media response team is listening to our viewers. the overwhelming conversation online we are hearing about is about health care. congressman o'rourke, if universal health care is going to cost trillions of dollars what would you cut from the federal budget or how much are you going to raise my taxes to pay for that? 

let's start with the goal. what is it we are trying to achieve? we want to make sure everyone can see a doctor, afford their prescription medications, take their child to a therapist and be well enough to live to their full potential over their full lifetime. working families pay less for health care costs than they do today. here are some steps we can take to get to your answer. we could expand medicaid. this is a state that left $100 billion on the table. we could expand medicaid. more working texans are able to be well enough to go back to work. to be there for their families. we could introduce medicare as an option on the exchange to drive down the increase in premium costs and expand selection and choice. and then we could take the lead as the state that is the least insured in the united states, who better understands the consequences of failing to be there by and for one another better than anyone else, and guaranteeing high-quality universal health care. there are number of ways to get a mix of employer-based insurance and the ability for people to pay into medicare. that could come at a cost of around $1.6 trillion over the next 10 years. if you look at the tax cuts senator cruz just voted for, $2 trillion, adding $221 trillion in debt, with a disproportionate benefits going to corporations you could move the corporate tax rate and that would generate the money necessary to pay for access to health care, so that everyone lives to their full potential.

he did not want to answer how to pay for it. let me be clear what it would cost. congressman o'rourke is proposing socialized medicine. the federal government in charge of your health care and your doctor. there are at least three big problems with that. every place where that happens, you have rationing and waiting lists. if you go to the united kingdom, if you need a hip replacement, it takes 90 days. in canada, it takes 200 days. number two, the cost would be immense. when bernie sanders rolled out this plan, and congressman o'rourke supports the bernie sanders plan of socialized medicine, a left-leaning institute scored it as costing $32 trillion over 10 years, that is $2.5 trillion in the first year. right now, the total we raise from all of our income taxes is $1.5 trillion. so the congressman's plan would require tripling your taxes. he said you could do it with five points on the corporate rate. that does not even pass elementary school math. by the way, his next answer, likely will be "tax the rich."  if you took every person in america making $1 million or more and took 100% of their income, it would pay for five months of his socialized medicine. we cannot afford it. third, he wants to put everyone who hasn't paid into medicare on medicare. that would bankrupt medicare and hurt seniors who have paid into medicare and rely on it. putting 200 million people including illegal immigrants, on it could bankrupt medicare.

mr. o'rourke, if elected, in a rebuttal, how would you get that passed? 

all we have heard from mr. cruz is what we should be afraid of. it is a campaign based on fear. he shut down the united states government because he thought too many people had access to health care. he has voted to take away health care from millions of american families and vowed to repeal protection for pre-existing conditions. i want people to have more health care. i want people to be well enough to finish their education, to bring people of texas together, republicans and democrats alike. from all parts of the state, to make sure we lead on an issue that we understand more than anyone else. in a state where the largest provider of mental health care services is the county jail system, where people are dying of the flu and diabetes in the wealthiest and most powerful country in 2018, surely we can do better. i laid out steps that would allow us to do that, getting -- beginning with expanding medicaid, introducing medicare as an option on the exchanges and describing the goal we want to get to. ensuring that republicans and democrats alike come to the table to work on that.

senator cruz, there is concern all across the country about president trump increasing tariffs. toyota says trucks produced here in san antonio would increase in cost by $3000 next year because of rising tariffs on auto parts. two nights ago on 60 minutes, president trump did not rule out increasing tariffs again. the question is, do you believe tariffs threaten texas growth, and if so, is it time for the senate to step in and stop it? 

i am against tariffs and a trade war. let me answer the question. i am against tariffs and the trade war. i have made the case repeatedly to president trump that in trade, we should be expanding our access to foreign markets, expanding the ability of texas farmers and ranchers and manufacturers and energy to export our goods and services. if we are reducing the barriers, whether it is to mexico and canada or china and anywhere else, so we are selling more, that is a good thing. if we are erecting barriers and shutting down trade, that is a bad thing. this is one of the issues on which congressman o'rourke and i have some common ground, we held -- we have both spoken out in favor of trade. the difference is i am able to work with president trump, and we have seen for example, the president has negotiated a new nafta, a new trade deal that has benefits that should benefit the state of texas, and san antonio. congressman o'rourke is not able to work with president trump and indeed, congressman o'rourke is the only democratic senate nominee in the country who has explicitly come out for impeaching president trump. that is extreme, and it means if congressman o'rourke has his way, he mentioned a shutdown -- you want to talk about a shutdown, with congressman o'rourke leading the way, two years of a partisan circus, shutting down the federal government in a partisan witchhunt on the president, that is not good for the state of texas and not good for the country. 

interesting to hear you talk about a partisan circus after your last six years in the senate. if you have this special relationship with president trump, then where is the result of that? you were all talk and no action. the tariffs the president has levied and the trade wars he has entered this country into is hurting no state more than it is hurting texas. our farmers, ranchers, manufacturers and exporters here in san antonio, at the plant where amy and i purchased our tundra and met the folks who made it, yes, we have problems with other countries like china manipulating their currency, and i want to make sure we stand up to china, but what have we gone -- when have we ever gone to war, including a trade war, without any allies, exactly what the president with senator cruise's would help us do. senator cruz would help us do. we have alienated the eu, canada and mexico. we have alienated all other potential partners and going on our own against china, and it is not working. i know you haven't had a chance to visit every county, but i have. i have listened to our farmers and they are hurting. the anxiety of not knowing whether trade wars will end, and when they do end, those buyers and other countries will find other people from whom to buy from, and they will no longer be coming to texas to buy what we grow, raise or export and manufacture. we need a senator -- we must stand up to the president.

mr. cruz, should the senate step in and stop this? 

we should keep working with the president, which is what we have been doing. but congressman o'rourke just asked an interesting question. he said, where are the results? congressman o'rourke and i were both elected to congress six years ago in november of 2012 and we have served exactly the same length of time in congress. in those six years, i have authored and passed 34 separate pieces of legislation, major victories for the american people. i will point the one result, the historic tax cut, which i spent thousands of hours, bringing senators together and getting past. where are the results? the state of texas is booming. we have the lowest unemployment in 49 years. african-american unemployment is at its lowest ever recorded. hispanic unemployment, the lowest ever reported. youth unemployment is the lowest in 52 years. texas is seeing the benefit of low taxes and low regulation. congressman o'rourke's position is always in favor of higher taxes. he said in response to how he pays for socialist medicine, higher taxes. that is not good for texas.

representative o'rourke, you supported $50 billion to help victims of hurricane harvey, but two weeks after that, you voted against a bill that would have also given them tax relief. what do you tell victims who are still struggling financially today, one year later? 

i have been with many of those affected by harvey, in the immediate aftermath, going to places like like rockport, beaumont, port arthur and houston and we continue to come back again and again to see what we can do to be helpful. i have voted for more than $136 billion in aid for those communities hit by national disasters, including hurricane harvey. in the specific bill you asked about, the tax relief was not as great as we have seen for those who have been through other natural disasters and i thought we could get a better deal. i am there for those communities each and every day. i continue to go back to places like cashmere gardens in houston, texas, which is still not fully rebuilt a year later. i continue to wonder why senator cruz voted against more than $12 billion in fema preparedness, knowing full well that we would see more disasters like harvey going forward. that was the third 500 year flood in the last five years. we know that there will be more of these floods coming and i want to make sure the people of texas, especially southeast texas, are prepared for the next one. the $12 billion also included hundreds of millions of dollars in support for volunteer fire departments, like the one i visited in rockport, where 20 volunteer firefighters, more than half of them, lost their worldly possessions and were sleeping on the floor as they responded to emergencies in their communities. so yes, i will work with anyone, anytime, anywhere, to make sure those texans who need help to rebuild get it and we invest in their ability to be resilient.

houston is my hometown. hurricane harvey hit texas unlike any other disaster we have seen. it was devastating. i was home with heidi and my girls during the hurricane and for months thereafter, spend -- spent time in virtually every community along the gulf coast, four or five times, working with state and local officials. i mentioned earlier 171 sheriffs have endorsed my campaign, including 10 democrats. one of the reasons why the overwhelming majority of elected sheriffs have endorsed me is because many of those sheriffs i worked with hand-in-hand after harvey. in the senate, i helped lead the effort to pass three disaster-related relief bills, working hand-in-hand with john cornyn where we improved and expanded those disaster relief bills, and the emergency tax relief he just referenced, was legislation i authored. introduced, passed into law, jointly with john cornyn and marco rubio. the emergency tax relief give over $5 billion in emergency tax relief for families impacted by hurricane harvey. it passed both houses of congress overwhelmingly and was signed into law, providing immediate relief for those impacted by harvey. only four texas democrats voted no on the legislation. one of them was congressman o' rourke, the congressman. there was a reason for that. he gave an answer now now saying that it did not provide tax relief. that is not what he said at the time. he said that the reason he voted no was that he wanted to focus on illegal immigrants instead of hurricane relief. that was his answer at the time.

do you regret the vote? 

i don't. i will always see what i can do to work with anyone anywhere to do better for texas. that's what i was trying to do. senator cruz mentioned listening to and working with local leaders in houston. i have listened to and worked with the mayor and the county judge, democrat and republican, each of whom is still waiting for $1 billion awarded to the local governments in community development block grant funding that has still not made its way into the streets, homes and businesses to rebuild. they need a full-time senator, not somebody running for president who is going to focus on their needs and make sure that money gets there. they need a full-time senator who would be at bat for them before the storm, on infrastructure projects they had identified, needed funding, but they needed a senator who would work for them. army corps of engineers-approved projects totaling in the hundreds of millions of dollars, who did not have an advocate because he was in iowa, new hampshire, running for office instead of taking care of the , concerns and the needs of people there.

senator cruz, a year ago this week, you tweeted the following statement. "when it comes to the deficit and debt, it is immoral the debt we have, we have to turn it around." yet two months later, you voted for the republican tax plan that the joint committee on taxation, the congressional budget office and many other non-partisans say will add more than $1 trillion to the deficit. some people see it as hypocritical. are they not? 

i am proud to support the tax cut, it is producing enormous benefits for the state of texas and the country. we are seeing record growth, record low unemployment, 4 million new jobs in the last two years. by the way, one thing democrats never seem to understand is if you want to pay down deficit and debt, and i care passionately about the deficit and debt, the only force strong enough to do that is economic growth. let's go back to history. in the 1960's, john f. kennedy, a democrat, campaigned on tax cuts. cutting individual tax rates and the corporate tax rate. he said that a rising tide would lift all boats, and he passed it and the economy boomed. federal tax revenue went up. in the 1980's, ronald reagan campaigned on cutting taxes to get the economy growing. he passed it and federal tax revenues went up. we did the same thing this time. this time, with that tax cut, we are seeing the results and to date, federal tax revenues have gone up. federal tax revenues are higher this year than they were last year without the tax cuts. 

respectfully, senator, i was with you in iowa, i have heard you on the campaign trail in iowa saying how bad the deficit is. this would add to the deficit.

jason, it wouldn't. that projection is wrong. that projection also would have said the kennedy tax cuts would have added to the deficit. the reason we have deficit and debt is not because we cut taxes and spur the economy, the reason is because congress keeps spending. that is why we need term limits, we need to pass a balanced budget and we need to stop the out-of-control spending like socialized medicine.

speaking of balancing budgets, only one of us with good friends in el paso has started a small business. met that payroll every week balanced our books and made sure , we delivered for clients. only one of us has served in that local government, balancing the budget, working as a councilmember entrusted with the fiduciary responsibility to deliver for the taxpayers of el paso every single year. for senator cruz to say that this is not going to bust the budget at a time of $21 trillion of debt, and on track to a deficit of $2 trillion a year, he voted for tax cut which would flow to corporations who were already sitting on record piles of cash and in a country that is riven with income inequality not seen since the last gilded age. why? in the days just before and after that vote, senator cruz accepted $120,000 before the vote from political action committees who represent the corporate interests that benefited from these tax cuts. why does he vote for this? why does he vote for internet companies to sell your private browsing data to the highest bidder without your consent? why does he not vote for universal background checks in a country that loses 30,000 people to gun violence every year? follow the money. if you look at political action committee contributions, it helps to explain the reasons for his vote and how corrupt congress has become. i do not take that money, not a dime.

congressman o'rourke is fond of saying he does not take pac money. the truth is different. for example, a rabidly anti-israel pac has raised over $160,000 for congressman o' rourke because of his many votes against the nation of israel. another super pac based in dallas has spent thousands of dollars on ads attacking me and my family. when he says he doesn't take pac money, he just lets others do it for him. let me say more fundamentally, the reason people care about this is they care about who you are fighting for. when you look at congressman o' rourke's record, anytime there is a choice between left-wing national activists and the people of texas, he goes with the left wing national activists and he goes with left-wing national donors. for example, we were talking earlier about his vote for a $10 a barrel tax on oil. that is a great vote if you are raising money in san francisco, it is a terrible vote if you care about jobs in texas. 

a poll this year says 70% of americans say civility is a major problem in america. let us talk about the tone of the campaign and what is happening. we all watched as activists chased you and your wife out of a restaurant in d.c. some said you cannot even give a political free compliment to your opponent in the first debate in dallas. what responsibility do you have to bring back civility and respect back to the country?

everyone of us has a responsibility to bring civility and respect. that is something i have endeavored to do in politics, to focus on substance, issues and record. the personal attacks, going to the gutter that is so common in politics, i try not to engage in. if you look at my disagreements with congressman o'rourke, they have not been personal attacks. they have been his voting record in congress, markedly out of step with the people in texas. you are right that there is a loss of civility, a rage on the far left that is frightening. the images -- hold on, do not interrupt me, jason. the images of a left-wing mob beating on the doors of the supreme court, that is not good for our country. we can disagree while treating each other with respect, with civility. i think that is important. we can discuss our tax cuts good or is raising taxes good? that is a discussion we ought to have, but it should not be personal. it should not go to the gutter. it should focus on actual substance. i think the lowest point we have seen is the confirmation hearings for justice kavanaugh. where we saw senate democrats be willing to smear judge kavanagh -- kavanaugh and his family, be willing to repeat unsupported, uncorroborated allegations and go after him in a way that i thought was shameful. it was important that that process be fair, that dr. ford be treated with respect, and she was. it was important. but it was important that he be treated with respect as well, and he was not.

every year, allegheny college presents an award for civility in american politics. one of the first years, it was awarded to senator john mccain and vice president biden. another year, it was awarded to the family of the late justice antonin scalia, and justice ruth bader ginsburg. last year, i was fortunate enough to receive the award, along with phil hurd. our ability to travel across the country as a republican and democrat in a car and facebook livestream the whole thing, then to get to work in congress and join one another's legislation to do better for our constituents regardless of party differences, was recognized. it is the same kind of approach i take to just about everything i do in congress, everything i do in life. when we found out veterans were unable to access mental health care services, half a million veterans were denied the ability to go to the v.a., i worked with my colleague from colorado, mike coffman. he is a republican and i am democrat but we were able to compromise. a four letter word among some in washington, d.c. and find a consensus piece of legislation that passed the house of representatives, 435-0, passed the senate as well, and was signed into law by the president. president trump is someone that i don't agree with on everything. but where we can make things better for veterans, we did. we buried the differences and we put them aside and put the country's interests before us. that is what this country deserves. 

i was going to ask you, doesn't the inflammatory rhetoric just exacerbate the situation? 

absolutely. i think we should focus on substance and not inflammatory rhetoric. i will say, it was striking at this press conference in d.c. about civility, congressman o'rourke again repeated his call for impeaching president trump. the very essence of not civility. if we had impeachment, we would see an end to the repeal of the job killing regulations fueling our economic growth. an end to the progress rebuilding our military. making progress on foreign policy. washington would be consumed by partisan investigations. that's not civility. let me point more broadly. it is interesting congressman o'rourke points to a bill that another congressman wrote and he was a cosponsor of. there is a reason for that. have you noticed in his campaign and this debate, he does not talk about what he has accomplished in congress, because he has scored political points rather than accomplishing victories for the people of texas. we talked about emergency tax relief in the wake of hurricane harvey that i authored. that was bipartisan. we had democrats and republicans, that was good for texas.

when it comes to the me too movement, the president said it is a scary time for young men. congressman, you are raising sons. what do you tell them? 

i am raising two sons and a daughter and i tell each of them that it is critically important that they are treated with respect and that they demand that from everyone in their life, and that they treat one another and everyone in their life with respect. i am very grateful for the leadership we have seen across this country in positions of public trust in congress, and people at the neighborhood level. meeting the challenge of this moment. congress members like jackie speier from california, who authored legislation that i cosponsored that ensures members of congress are held to a higher standard. that there is transparency in their conduct. not the ability to cover up, and there is important training to make sure everyone in their offices and their lives is treated with respect and dignity that they deserve. i also support the violence against women act, to make sure we have the resources and training and funding to protect the lives of the women in our lives in this state and around the country. senator cruz, maybe he will have an explanation, he voted against the violence against women act. we have to make sure we are more than just talk. we have to make sure we have, actions that follow this up. for example, when talking about women, we are talking about equal pay for equal work. when we are talking about women, we are talking about ensuring they can make their own decisions about their own bodies, and have access to the health care that allows them to do that. it means that our rhetoric has to be followed up with our actions, and with senator cruz, we don't have that today.

in response, senator, what do you tell your daughters? 

i think the me too movement has done an incredible amount of good for our country. sexual assault and sexual harassment is wrong. we have seen in recent months powerful men in hollywood, politics, journalism, and business called to account. for abominable behavior. i believe everyone, women, men, girls and boys, need to be protected and treated with dignity. as you noted, i am the father of two girls and i want their rights to be valued and protected. i am also the son of my mom, who graduated from rice in 1956 and went to work at shell as a computer programmer. she was a professional woman in the 1950's, she faced a very difficult political climate. my wife heidi works in the financial sector and again, always a difficult climate. we need to protect everyone's rights. let me tell you, when it comes to stopping sexual assault and dealing with those who commit them, before i was in the senate, i was the solicitor general of texas, the chief lawyer for the state in front of the supreme court. i handled over and over again, cases dealing with those who had committed sexual assault and child predators. it has been a passion of mine. congressman o' rourke mentioned sexual harassment in congress, i joined with new york democrat kirsten gillibrand to create legislation to stop the indefensible practice of secret settlements for members of congress who were harassing their staff. there should be no secret settlements. it is important that we have accountability.

i pointed out two specific opportunities for senator cruz to do the right thing. one of them being the violence against women act. i did not hear a good reason why he failed to support that. you have somebody, as i mentioned earlier, who is all talk and no action. somebody who left the state of texas within a year of being elected to represent all of us to run for another office. has not been to all the counties of texas, has been to all 99 counties of iowa, has missed a quarter of the votes in 2015, half of them in 2016. there is only one other senator from either party over the past 25 years who has a worse record of bipartisanship. in other words, ted cruz has a hard time working with members across the aisle man almost anyone else to get anything done. he's not showing up in texas, in d.c., who is he showing up for? i want to make sure, whether it is women in the issue you asked about or any other -- we have a senator who shows up every single day.

let us go to something different. we want you to tell us something you have done in the last year that has nothing to do with politics that would give texans insight to who you are as a person.

the hardest thing about being in this job is being a dad. my girls are here. at the last debate, congressman o'rourke and i talked about that, both of us are dad's of young kids and it is tough. our girls are 7 and 10. monday morning, leaving, it is really hard. last year, i was -- i helped coach caroline's girls basketball team. the fourth grade basketball team. the basketball practices were sunday afternoon, so i was able to be at practice. as caroline will point out many times, in the course of the whole season, i made it to one game. that is not ok with her. by the way, one of the games i thought i was going to make it too was a friday night game and i thought i was going to be back, but it was the night of the vote on the tax cut. so i was in the senate and i had to call home and say caroline, i am sorry, i have got to be here to vote on this. for a fourth grader, the fact that you are voting to cut taxes is not an explanation for why daddy is not at the game. being a dad, part of what we do is we call on facetime and we try to carve out every sunday for the family, but that is hard, and i take being a dad really seriously.

i think much of what senator cruz just said resonates with me. we spent the better part of the last 21 months on the road campaigning in every single county of texas, and i don't get to see my kids as much as i would like to. amy takes on the lion's share of the burden with a child who has just entered sixth grade, another who just entered fifth, and henry is in second. every now and then we get down in the basement where i have a drum kit that was ostensibly purchased for henry, but really was for me, an amplifier, and me and the kids will rock out and amy allows us to do that for a little while. we go to ulysses's travel baseball tournaments, the last one was in las cruces. i have had them in alamogordo, as well. just went with molly, who is nursing back to life a blind squirrel that was picked up in east texas, dropped off in el paso at a wildlife animal rescue run by miss julie. got to meet the blind squirrel, slowly regaining its sight. henry, one of the best parts of my day is when i am at home and getting to walk him to school, talking about what he dreamed about the night before and what he is into this day. with very little time outside the campaign or my official job, i spend it with my children.

i'd like to thank you each for moderating this abate, everyone who has been here to witness it, and all those who made the campaign and the election of our lifetime possible. i was talking to amy about this moment that stayed with me after i first met secretary of defense jim mattis. he was meeting with members of the armed services committee and reminded us that united states, historically, has enjoyed two powers that distinguish us from the rest of the world. one is the power of intimidation. to field the most awesome military force the world has ever known. the other, he thought maybe the greater power, is the power of inspiration. to continue to be the indispensable nation that lives up to the promise and potential of our founders. a nation that not just americans look up to, but the world looks up to. whether we will remain the inspiration of the world is an open question right now. walls, muslim bans, taking kids away from their parents after they have survived a horrifying 2000 mile journey, seeking asylum here in this country. the bitterness, the partisanship, the pettiness, the dishonesty that defines so much of the national conversation, we are in desperate need right now of inspiration. i will tell you what. traveling the state of texas, meeting people regardless of their walk of life, their background, their party affiliation, you have inspired me. you have inspired me to transcend the obstacles, to be the courageous, strong match for this moment on any issue that challenges us. in texas, where nearly half the school teachers work a second job to make ends meet, making sure we are there for them, paying them a living wage. ensuring that they can teach the child, not the test. in this state of immigrants, making sure we lead the national conversation. and the least insured state in the country can take the lead on guaranteeing high-quality, universal health care. you have inspired me in this race, and i am grateful to have the chance to represent you.

the classic question in politics, are you better off now than you were two years ago? is texas? elections are about choices. do we continue on the path we are on or do we turn back? the records of congressman o'rourke and myself could not be more different. on taxes, i want to cut your taxes. congressman o'rourke wants to raise them. on job killing regulations, i want to repeal them and the congressman wants to increase them. on obamacare, i want to repeal obamacare, reduce premiums, protect pre-existing conditions, and expand access. congressman o'rourke wants socialized medicine, the federal government in charge of your health care and your doctor, which would threaten to bankrupt medicare. i want to keep the economic boom we are experiencing right now going and moving forward. congressman o'rourke wants the next two years to be drawn in a partisan circus of impeachment proceedings against president trump. elections are about who we are. do we choose fear or hope? i believe in hope. my mom was the first one in our family to go to college and she was a pioneer professional woman. my dad came from cuba with nothing, washing dishes, seeking the american dream. if someone had approached my dad in 1957 and said 50 years hence, your son will be a u.s. senator representing the state of texas, that teenage immigrant could never have believed it. yet, as i stood on the floor in the senate with my hand on my father's bible, there was my dad in the gallery with tears running down his eyes. only in america. this is a choice about keeping the boom going. we have the lowest hispanic unemployment ever recorded. the lowest african-american unemployment ever recorded. why would we want to screw that up?  we need to defend jobs, defend the constitution.

we appreciate your time. mr. cruz, mr.o'rourke, thank you for sharing tonight. we appreciate that.
